# Using GitHub Copilot with JavaScript

## Workshop objectives

- Enable the GitHub Copilot extension in Visual Studio Code.
- Craft prompts that can generate useful suggestions from GitHub Copilot.
- Use GitHub Copilot to improve a JavaScript project.
- After successfully finishing this exercise, you'll be capable of using a prompt to customize a JavaScript project with GitHub Copilot in GitHub Codespaces.

## Prerequisites
- Basic understanding of JavaScript, like variables and conditionals.
- Ability to use Git and GitHub for version control.
- A GitHub Account with an active subscription for GitHub Copilot is required.

# Scenario: Improving a project
As a developer, you want to be more productive typing code faster both for net new projects and existing ones. For this task, you hope that an AI assistant is what you need to improve your developer workflows in code writing, documentation, testing and more.

## How does GitHub Copilot work?
When writing code, you often consult documentation or web pages to remember syntax or solve problems. You might spend hours fixing issues, writing tests, and creating documentation. These tasks are time-consuming. Using code snippets or IDE tools can help, but is there a better way?

GitHub Copilot is an AI assistant that you use from within your IDE that's capable of generating code and much more. GitHub Copilot uses prompts, natural language, and it provides suggestions based on what you type. A prompt can, for example, can be a comment within your code file:

```javascript
// Create a web API using express and JavaScript with routes for products and customers
```
Copilot then goes on to generate a response that you can choose to accept or reject. A response to the prompt could look similar to the following code:
```javascript
    const express = require("express");

    app = express();
    app.path("/products", () => "products");
    app.listen(3000, () => "app runs");
```
### How it recognizes prompts
Copilot can recognize a prompt or instruction if you:

- Type it as a comment in a code file (for example, .py, .js).
- Type text in a markdown file and wait a few seconds for Copilot to respond.

### Accepting suggestions
What you get from Copilot is a suggestion, which appears as grey text if you use black as your text color. To accept the suggestion, press the _Tab_ key.

Copilot might suggest multiple options. To cycle through suggestions, use _Ctrl + Enter_ and select the most appropriate one.

# How to set up GitHub Copilot

1. GitHub Account: Create a GitHub account. Since Copilot is a GitHub service, you need a GitHub account to use it. 
2. Sign up and enable GitHub Copilot: For learning purposes, the Copilot Free option with usage limits should be sufficient. GitHub Copilot offers a free tier with 2,000 code autocompletes and 50 chat messages per month.
3. Install the Extension:
    - GitHub Copilot is available as an extension for major IDEs, including Visual Studio, Visual Studio Code, JetBrains IDEs, VIM, and XCode.
    - To install, search for "GitHub Copilot" in your IDE's extension marketplace and follow the installation instructions. 

## Environment set up
First you need to launch the Codespaces environment, which comes preconfigured with the GitHub Copilot extension.

1. Select the following button to Open the Codespace with the preconfigured environment.

    [Open in GitHub Codespaces](codespaces.new/MicrosoftDocs/mslearn-copilot-codespaces-javascript)

2. On the Create codespace page, review the codespace configuration settings and then select Create new codespace
3. Wait for the codespace to start. This startup process can take a few minutes.
4. The remaining exercises in this project take place in the context of this development container.

### JavaScript portfolio
When complete, Codespaces loads with a terminal section at the bottom. Codespaces installs all the required extensions and dependencies in your container. Once complete, this template is configured to use npm start to start the web application within your Codespace.

When the web application has successfully started, a message in the terminal shows that the server is running on port 1234 within your Codespace.

# Best practices using GitHub Copilot
Copilot supercharges your productivity but requires some good practices to ensure quality. Some best practices when using Copilot are:

- The quality of output from Copilot is dependent on how well you craft your prompt. Creating an effective prompt is essential for achieving desired outcomes. For example, if you have the following prompt:
    ```javascript
    // Create an API endpoint
    ```
    Since the prompt is ambiguous and vague, the result from GitHub Copilot might not be what you need. For example, it could use a framework that you don't know, or an endpoint that requires data that you don't recognize. However, if you have the following prompt:

    ```javaScript
    // Create an API endpoint using the React framework that accepts a JSON payload in a POST request
    ```
    This last prompt is specific, clear and allows GitHub Copilot to understand the goal and scope of the task. 

- Keep your prompts simple then add more elaborate components as you keep going for example:
    ```
    create an HTML form with a text field and button
    ```

- Next, elaborate more on the prompt to get more specific suggestions:
    ``` 
    Add an event listen to the button to send a POST request to /generate endpoint and display response in a div with id "result"
    ```
- Inline prompt fo a css
    ```css
    /* add an amazing animation to the social icons */
    ```

Cycle between suggestions, you can do this using _Ctrl+Enter_ (or _Cmd+Enter_ on a Mac). You get various suggestions from Copilot, and you can pick the best output. Optionally, when using GitHub Copilot Chat, you can use the chat input to add your prompt and interact with the output.